It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.

"Stroking a cat can help to relieve stress, and the feel of a purring cat on your lap conveys a strong sense of security and comfort."

The ancient Egyptians were the first civilisation to realise the cat's potential as a vermin hunter and tamed cats to protect the corn supplies on which their lives depended.

Sir Isaac Newton is not only credited with the laws of gravity but is also credited with inventing the cat flap.

A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.

A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.

The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.ÿ

Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.

Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.

A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.

Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.

The female cat reaches sexual maturity at around 6 to 10 months and the male cat between 9 and 12 months.

A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.ÿ

The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.

Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.

Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.

All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.

"In households in the UK and USA, there are more cats kept as pets than dogs. At least 35% of households with cats have 2 or more cats."

"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership."

About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.

Milk can give some cats diarrhea.

The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.

"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day."

A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.

The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.

"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness."

The cat's front paw has 5 toes and the back paws have 4. Cats born with 6 or 7 front toes and extra back toes are called polydactl.

"An adult cat has 30 teeth, 16 on the top and 14 on the bottom."

"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside."

Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.

"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better."

The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
